# 21
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/Zhhf89C0CKk?si=1w8vhhZR3Z_hlKeG
#### Description:

 The 21 project involves creating a habit tracker, an IOS app, using Swift. The app is done in Xcode, using Swift. This app allows users to enter a habit they want to have and helps them to track it daily. Moreover, the app is quite strict on the 21-day habit forming, so if the user tries to skip a day or forget to check their habit on the app, the app will tell the user to reset the progress.

 I have chosen the 21-day habit-forming program because 21 days to form a habit seems like a reasonable amount of time. In contrast to other programs, the 21 days allow users to think that the habit is accomplishable and after 21 days they might have developed a routine which is the goal of this app, rather than quitting halfway with a long-duration program. While trying to form a habit, the 21 days also takes into account the complexity of the habit, this app’s main goal is to help users create simple and accomplishable habits. For instance, reading 10 pages every night before bed; waking up before 8 am; going for a walk, and so on.

 The whole program is written in one file, “final.swift”. It includes the home tab view, where it displays the logo of the app, a text bar where the user can type in the habit they want to track, and a button where the user can click on when they want to start tracking the habit. It will take them to the progress tab. If the user hasn’t entered a habit or entered a habit that is already in progress and clicks on the button, it will display an error message. The habit that the user typed in is also stored in memory, so when the user restarts the app, the habit that they entered is still there.

 In the progress tab view, there are sets of views. If the user hasn’t entered a habit, they won’t be able to access the tab, instead, they will shown an error message and a button to go back to the home tab. If the user has entered a habit to track, they will displayed a title of the habit; a button to check every day's progress, whether they have completed the habit or not; and lastly 21 circles that represent the 21-day habit forming program. If the user clicks on the button to check their completion of the habit, the circle will change to a filled circle with a check inside. The user can carry on checking their completion on each day. If the user skips a day or forgets to check their completion of the habit, when they return to the app go to the progress tab, and click on the button again, it will display a message telling them that they have to reset their progress, there will be a button to reset the progress on the warning message. If the user doesn’t reset the progress they won’t be able to continue on the progress tab, unless they change the habit they want to track. On the final day of the program, the 21st, when the user clicks on the button, it will display a message to congratulate them they have completing the program and a button to start a new habit to track that takes them back to the home tab and reset the progress tab.

 Whenever the user clicks on the progress tab, it checks first if the habit has changed or not, if not it will load the previous habit’s progress. Every 60 seconds the progress tab, will store the current date to check if it’s a new day. Moreover, this view includes private functions: a saveProgress function that saves the user’s progress into memory every time they complete a habit; a loadProgress function, which is called whenever the progress tab is called if the habit hasn’t changed;a resetProgress function that resets the user porgress and saves it into memory; a skipped function that checks if the day's difference between last completed a habit date with the current date is higher than 1 it returns false; finally a canClickToday function, this essentially enables and disable the button on the progress tab view, so the user can’t click again once they have completed a habit on the same day, it returns true if it’s a new day.
 
 In the ContentView, we coded the tab bar and how the user jumps from one tab to another. Each tab has a special tag so in other views we can call their tag and jump to another tab. Here we also pass in the necessary values from other views.

 Lastly, in the entry point of the program, the app creates a windowGroup scene and displays whatever it’s in Contentview, which in this case is our tab views.
